=head1 NAME

WebService::OCI::Guide - getting started with WebService::OCI from scratch

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This is a start-to-finish walkthrough for someone who has never called the
Oracle Cloud Infrastructure (OCI) API before. By the end you will have an API
signing key, a F<~/.oci/config> file, and a working first request - from both
the command line and Perl.

If you already have a working F<~/.oci/config> (for example from the official
C<oci> CLI), skip to L</"Step 7: Your first call">; this module reads the same
file.

=head1 Step 1: What you need

=over 4

=item *

An Oracle Cloud account (the Always Free tier is enough), so you have a
B<tenancy> and a B<user>.

=item *

C<openssl> on your machine, to generate a signing key.

=item *

This distribution installed (it pulls in L<HTTP::Tiny> and L<CryptX>):

    cpanm WebService::OCI
    # or, from a checkout:
    perl Makefile.PL && make && make test && make install

=back

OCI API access uses B<API-key signing>: you create an RSA key pair, upload the
public half to your user in the Console, and sign every request with the
private half. There are no passwords or bearer tokens to manage.

=head1 Step 2: Generate an API signing key

The key must be an RSA private key in PEM format, 2048 bits or larger.

    mkdir -p ~/.oci && chmod 700 ~/.oci
    openssl genrsa -out ~/.oci/oci_api_key.pem 2048
    chmod 600 ~/.oci/oci_api_key.pem
    openssl rsa -pubout -in ~/.oci/oci_api_key.pem \
        -out ~/.oci/oci_api_key_public.pem

To protect the key with a passphrase, add C<-aes256> to the C<genrsa> line; you
will then set C<pass_phrase> in the config (Step 5).

=head1 Step 3: Get the key fingerprint

The B<fingerprint> identifies which uploaded key signed a request. You can
compute it before or after uploading:

    oci-rest fingerprint ~/.oci/oci_api_key.pem
    # or, with plain openssl:
    openssl rsa -pubout -outform DER -in ~/.oci/oci_api_key.pem 2>/dev/null \
        | openssl md5 -c

Both print the same C<aa:bb:cc:...> string. The OCI Console also shows it when
you upload the key in the next step.

=head1 Step 4: Upload the public key

In the OCI Console: click your B<profile> icon (top right) and open B<My
profile> (older consoles: B<User Settings>). Under B<API keys>, choose B<Add
API key>, then either upload F<~/.oci/oci_api_key_public.pem> or paste its
contents.

After adding it, the Console displays a B<Configuration file preview> with your
C<user>, C<fingerprint>, C<tenancy> and C<region> already filled in. Keep that
preview open for the next two steps - it has everything you need.

=head1 Step 5: Collect your OCIDs and region

You need three identifiers (the Console preview from Step 4 has all of them):

=over 4

=item *

B<tenancy OCID> - looks like C<ocid1.tenancy.oc1..aaaa...>.

=item *

B<user OCID> - C<ocid1.user.oc1..aaaa...>.

=item *

B<region> - the region identifier such as C<us-ashburn-1> or C<eu-frankfurt-1>.

=back

=head1 Step 6: Write ~/.oci/config

Create F<~/.oci/config> with a C<[DEFAULT]> profile:

    [DEFAULT]
    user=ocid1.user.oc1..aaaa
    fingerprint=aa:bb:cc:dd:ee:ff:...
    tenancy=ocid1.tenancy.oc1..aaaa
    region=us-ashburn-1
    key_file=~/.oci/oci_api_key.pem

    chmod 600 ~/.oci/config

Or let the CLI prompt you and append the profile (it derives the fingerprint
from the key, and never overwrites an existing profile):

    oci-rest configure

You can keep several profiles - C<[DEFAULT]>, C<[STAGING]>, C<[work]> - and
select one with C<--profile NAME> on the CLI or C<< profile =E<gt> 'NAME' >> in
Perl.

=head1 Step 7: Your first call

A good first request is Object Storage B<GetNamespace>: it is authenticated but
needs no compartment or other setup, and just returns your tenancy's namespace
string.

From the command line:

    oci-rest get /n --service objectstorage

In Perl:

    use WebService::OCI;
    my $oci = WebService::OCI->new(service => 'objectstorage');
    my $res = $oci->get('/n');
    die $res->reason unless $res->is_success;
    print "namespace: ", $res->content, "\n";

If you get a namespace back, your key, fingerprint, config and region are all
correct.

=head1 Step 8: A real query

List the Compute instances in a compartment. The root compartment's OCID is
your B<tenancy> OCID, so you can start there:

    my $oci = WebService::OCI->new(service => 'iaas');   # Compute/Network/Volume
    my $res = $oci->get('/20160918/instances',
        query => { compartmentId => $tenancy_ocid });
    for my $inst (@{ $res->content }) {
        printf "%-20s %s\n", $inst->{lifecycleState}, $inst->{displayName};
    }

The same on the command line:

    oci-rest get /20160918/instances --service iaas \
        -p compartmentId=ocid1.tenancy.oc1..aaaa

See L<WebService::OCI::Cookbook> for pagination, Object Storage uploads,
creating resources, and more.

=head1 Step 9: Reading the API reference

This module is a generic client: you supply the path and parameters straight
from Oracle's REST API reference at L<https://docs.oracle.com/en-us/iaas/api/>.
Each operation there lists its HTTP method, its path (such as
C</20160918/instances>, where C<20160918> is the API version), the host/service
it lives on, and its query and body parameters. Map those directly:

=over 4

=item *

method + path -> C<< $oci->get($path) >> / C<< $oci->post($path, $body) >> etc.

=item *

the service host's leading label -> C<< service =E<gt> 'iaas' >> (or pass a full
C<base_url>; see L<WebService::OCI/ENDPOINTS>).

=item *

query parameters -> C<< query =E<gt> { ... } >>.

=item *

request body -> the C<$payload> argument to C<post>/C<put>, or C<json>/C<body>.

=back

=head1 Troubleshooting

=over 4

=item B<401 NotAuthenticated>

The signature was rejected. Common causes: wrong C<fingerprint> or C<key_file>;
the public key was never uploaded (or to the wrong user); a client clock more
than five minutes off; or the wrong C<region>. Run the request with C<--debug>
to see the exact signing string and headers:

    oci-rest --debug get /n --service objectstorage

=item B<404 NotFound>

Often a wrong host rather than a wrong path - check the service's base URL in
the API reference and use C<base_url> if it does not fit the simple pattern
(see L<WebService::OCI/ENDPOINTS>).

=item B<400 / 409>

A malformed or conflicting request body or state. Inspect C<< $res->content >>;
OCI returns a JSON C<code>/C<message>. Quote the C<opc-request-id> response
header in any support request.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<WebService::OCI>, L<WebService::OCI::Cookbook>, L<oci-rest>,
L<WebService::OCI::Signer>

=head1 AUTHOR

vividsnow

=head1 LICENSE

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut
